#! https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/478297547

[图机器学习] 每日论文速递
==============

### 1
  
**论文标题** *Defending Graph Convolutional Networks against Dynamic Graph
  Perturbations via Bayesian Self-supervision*  
**论文作者** *Jun Zhuang,Mohammad Al Hasan*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *In recent years, plentiful evidence illustrates that Graph ConvolutionalNetworks (GCNs) achieve extraordinary 
accomplishments on the nodeclassification task. However, GCNs may be vulnerable to adversarial attacks onlabel-scarce 
dynamic graphs. Many existing works aim to strengthen therobustness of GCNs; for instance, adversarial training is used 
to shield GCNsagainst malicious perturbations. However, these works fail on dynamic graphsfor which label scarcity is a 
pressing issue. To overcome label scarcity,self-training attempts to iteratively assign pseudo-labels to highly 
confidentunlabeled nodes but such attempts may suffer serious degradation under dynamicgraph perturbations. In this 
paper, we generalize noisy supervision as a kindof self-supervised learning method and then propose a novel 
Bayesianself-supervision model, namely GraphSS, to address the issue. Extensiveexperiments demonstrate that GraphSS can 
not only affirmatively alert theperturbations on dynamic graphs but also effectively recover the prediction ofa node 
classifier when the graph is under such perturbations. These twoadvantages prove to be generalized over three classic 
GCNs across five publicgraph datasets.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03762v1*  
**论文批注** *The paper is accepted by AAAI 2022*
### 2
  
**论文标题** *AgraSSt: Approximate Graph Stein Statistics for Interpretable Assessment
  of Implicit Graph Generators*  
**论文作者** *Wenkai Xu,Gesine Reinert*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *We propose and analyse a novel statistical procedure, coined AgraSSt, toassess the quality of graph generators that may 
not be available in explicitform. In particular, AgraSSt can be used to determine whether a learnt graphgenerating 
process is capable of generating graphs that resemble a given inputgraph. Inspired by Stein operators for random graphs,
 the key idea of AgraSStis the construction of a kernel discrepancy based on an operator obtained fromthe graph 
generator. AgraSSt can provide interpretable criticisms for a graphgenerator training procedure and help identify 
reliable sample batches fordownstream tasks. Using Stein`s method we give theoretical guarantees for abroad class of 
random graph models. We provide empirical results on bothsynthetic input graphs with known graph generation procedures, 
and real-worldinput graphs that the state-of-the-art (deep) generative models for graphs aretrained on.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03673v1*
### 3
  
**论文标题** *Towards Sub-Quadratic Diameter Computation in Geometric Intersection
  Graphs*  
**论文作者** *Karl Bringmann,Sándor Kisfaludi-Bak,Marvin Künnemann,André Nusser,Zahra Parsaeian*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *We initiate the study of diameter computation in geometric intersectiongraphs from the fine-grained complexity 
perspective. A geometric intersectiongraph is a graph whose vertices correspond to some shapes in 
$d$-dimensionalEuclidean space, such as balls, segments, or hypercubes, and whose edgescorrespond to pairs of 
intersecting shapes. The diameter of a graph is thelargest distance realized by a pair of vertices in the graph.  
Computing the diameter in near-quadratic time is possible in several classesof intersection graphs [Chan and Skrepetos 
2019], but it is not at all clear ifthese algorithms are optimal, especially since in the related class of planargraphs 
the diameter can be computed in $\widetilde{\mathcal{O}}(n^{5/3})$ time[Cabello 2019, Gawrychowski et al. 2021].  In 
this work we (conditionally) rule out sub-quadratic algorithms in severalclasses of intersection graphs, i.e., 
algorithms of running time$\mathcal{O}(n^{2-\delta})$ for some $\delta>0$. In particular, there are nosub-quadratic 
algorithms already for fat objects in small dimensions: unitballs in $\mathbb{R}^3$ or congruent equilateral triangles 
in $\mathbb{R}^2$.For unit segments and congruent equilateral triangles, we can even rule outstrong sub-quadratic 
approximations already in $\mathbb{R}^2$. It seems thatthe hardness of approximation may also depend on dimensionality: 
foraxis-parallel unit hypercubes in~$\mathbb{R}^{12}$, distinguishing betweendiameter 2 and 3 needs quadratic time 
(ruling out $(3/2-\varepsilon)$-approximations), whereas for axis-parallel unit squares, we give an algorithmthat 
distinguishes between diameter $2$ and $3$ in near-linear time.  Note that many of our lower bounds match the best known
 algorithms up tosub-polynomial factors.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03663v1*  
**论文批注** *Full version of SoCG '22 paper*
### 4
  
**论文标题** *I-GCN: A Graph Convolutional Network Accelerator with Runtime Locality
  Enhancement through Islandization*  
**论文作者** *Tong Geng,Chunshu Wu,Yongan Zhang,Cheng Tan,Chenhao Xie,Haoran You,Martin C. Herbordt,Yingyan Lin,Ang Li*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) have drawn tremendous attention in thepast three years. Compared with other deep 
learning modalities,high-performance hardware acceleration of GCNs is as critical but even morechallenging. The hurdles 
arise from the poor data locality and redundantcomputation due to the large size, high sparsity, and irregular non-
zerodistribution of real-world graphs.  In this paper we propose a novel hardware accelerator for GCN inference,called 
I-GCN, that significantly improves data locality and reduces unnecessarycomputation. The mechanism is a new online graph
 restructuring algorithm werefer to as islandization. The proposed algorithm finds clusters of nodes withstrong internal
 but weak external connections. The islandization process yieldstwo major benefits. First, by processing islands rather 
than individual nodes,there is better on-chip data reuse and fewer off-chip memory accesses. Second,there is less 
redundant computation as aggregation for common/shared neighborsin an island can be reused. The parallel search, 
identification, and leverageof graph islands are all handled purely in hardware at runtime working in anincremental 
pipeline. This is done without any preprocessing of the graph dataor adjustment of the GCN model structure.  
Experimental results show that I-GCN can significantly reduce off-chipaccesses and prune 38% of aggregation operations, 
leading to performancespeedups over CPUs, GPUs, the prior art GCN accelerators of 5549x, 403x, and5.7x on average, 
respectively.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03606v1*  
**论文批注** *Published in MICRO 2022*
### 5
  
**论文标题** *Lambda number of zero-divisor graphs of finite commutative rings*  
**论文作者** *Annayat Ali,Rameez Raja*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Let $\G = (\V, \E)$ be a simple graph, an $L(2,1)$-labelling of $\G$ isassignment of labels from non-negative integers 
to the vertices of $\G$ suchthat adjacent vertices gets labels which at least differ by two and verticeswhich are at 
distance two from each other get different labels. The$\lambda$-number of $\G$, denoted by $\lambda(\G)$ is the smallest
 positiveinteger $\ell$ such that $\G$ has a $L(2,1)$-labelling with all the labels aremembers of the set $\{ 0, 1, 
\cdots, \ell \}$. The zero-divisor graph denotedby $\Gamma(R)$, of a finite commutative ring $R$ with unity is a simple 
graphwith vertices as non-zero zero divisors of $R$. Two vertices $u$ and $v$ areadjacent in $\Gamma(R)$ if and only if 
$uv = 0$ in $R$. In this paper, weinvestigate $L(2,1)$-labelling in zero-divisor graphs. We study the\textit{partite 
truncation}, a graph operation that reduces a $n$-partite graphof higher order to a graph of lower order. We establish 
the relation between$\lambda$-numbers of two graphs. We make use of the operation \textit{partitetruncation} to contract
 the zero-divisor graph of a reduced ring to thezero-divisor graph of a Boolean ring. We compute the exact value 
of$\lambda$-numbers of zero-divisor graphs of some classes of local and mixedrings such as $\Z_{p^n}, \Z_{p^n} 
\times\Z_{q^m},$ and$\mathbb{F}_{q}\times\Z_{p^n}$.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03579v1*
### 6
  
**论文标题** *TIGGER: Scalable Generative Modelling for Temporal Interaction Graphs*  
**论文作者** *Shubham Gupta,Sahil Manchanda,Srikanta Bedathur,Sayan Ranu*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *There has been a recent surge in learning generative models for graphs. Whileimpressive progress has been made on static
 graphs, work on generative modelingof temporal graphs is at a nascent stage with significant scope forimprovement. 
First, existing generative models do not scale with either thetime horizon or the number of nodes. Second, existing 
techniques aretransductive in nature and thus do not facilitate knowledge transfer. Finally,due to relying on one-to-one
 node mapping from source to the generated graph,existing models leak node identity information and do not allowup-
scaling/down-scaling the source graph size. In this paper, we bridge thesegaps with a novel generative model called 
TIGGER. TIGGER derives its powerthrough a combination of temporal point processes with auto-regressive modelingenabling 
both transductive and inductive variants. Through extensiveexperiments on real datasets, we establish TIGGER generates 
graphs of superiorfidelity, while also being up to 3 orders of magnitude faster than thestate-of-the-art.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03564v2*  
**论文批注** *To be published in AAAI-2022, additionally contains technical
  appendices/supplementary material*
### 7
  
**论文标题** *Adding Level Structure to Supersingular Elliptic Curve Isogeny Graphs*  
**论文作者** *Sarah Arpin*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Supersingular elliptic curve isogeny graphs are an interesting new directionfor post-quantum cryptography. In this 
paper, we add the information of levelstructure to supersingular elliptic curves and study these objects with 
themotivation of isogeny-based cryptography. Supersingular elliptic curves withlevel structure map to Eichler orders in 
a quaternion algebra, just assupersingular elliptic curves map to maximal orders in a quaternion algebra. Westudy this 
map and the Eichler orders themselves. We also look at isogenygraphs of supersingular elliptic curves with level 
structure, and how theyrelate to supersingular isogeny graphs used in post-quantum cryptography.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03531v1*  
**论文批注** *27 pages. Comments welcome!*
### 8
  
**论文标题** *Edge Contraction and Forbidden Induced Graphs*  
**论文作者** *Hany Ibrahim*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *A graph $G$ is $H$-free if any subset of $V(G)$ does not induce a subgraph of$G$ that is isomorphic to $H$. Given a 
graph $H$, we present sufficient andnecessary conditions for a graph $G$ such that $G/e$ is $H$-free for any edge$e$ in 
$E(G)$. Afterwards, we use these conditions to characterize forests,claw-free, $2K_{2}$-free, $C_{4}$-free, 
$C_{5}$-free, split, and pseudo-splitgraphs.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03491v1*
### 9
  
**论文标题** *Universal planar graphs for the topological minor relation*  
**论文作者** *Florian Lehner*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Huynh et al. recently showed that a countable graph $G$ which contains everycountable planar graph as a subgraph must 
contain arbitrarily large finitecomplete graphs as topological minors, and an infinite complete graph as aminor. We 
strengthen this result by showing that the same conclusion holds, if$G$ contains every countable planar graph as a 
topological minor. Inparticular, there is no countable planar graph containing every countableplanar graph as a 
topological minor, answering a question by Diestel andK\"uhn.  Moreover, we construct a locally finite planar graph 
which contains everylocally finite planar graph as a topological minor. This shows that in theabove result it is not 
enough to require that $G$ contains every locally finiteplanar graph as a topological minor.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03477v2*
### 10
  
**论文标题** *Graph Neural Networks for Image Classification and Reinforcement
  Learning using Graph representations*  
**论文作者** *Naman Goyal,David Steiner*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *In this paper, we will evaluate the performance of graph neural networks intwo distinct domains: computer vision and 
reinforcement learning. In thecomputer vision section, we seek to learn whether a novel non-redundantrepresentation for 
images as graphs can improve performance over trivial pixelto node mapping on a graph-level prediction graph, 
specifically imageclassification. For the reinforcement learning section, we seek to learn ifexplicitly modeling solving
 a Rubik's cube as a graph problem can improveperformance over a standard model-free technique with no inductive bias.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03457v2*  
**论文批注** *The work was done as a project for Neural Networks and Deep Learning
  course, Fall 2021 offering by Prof. Richard Zemel
 at Columbia University*
