
[时间序列] 每日论文速递
=============
  
> 欢迎关注 @AISeer，聚焦「图机器学习」「时空序列」「异常检测」及其交叉应用领域，欢迎交流 ヾ(≧∇≦*)ゝ
### 1
  
**论文标题** *A continuous multiple hypothesis testing framework for optimal exoplanet
  detection*  
**论文作者** *Nathan C. Hara,Thibault de Poyferré,Jean-Baptiste Delisle,Marc Hoffmann*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *The detection of exoplanets is hindered by the presence of complexastrophysical and instrumental noises. Given the 
difficulty of the task, it isimportant to ensure that the data are exploited to their fullest potential. Inthe present 
work, we search for an optimal exoplanet detection criterion. Weadopt a general Bayesian multiple hypothesis testing 
framework, where thehypotheses are indexed by continuous variables. This framework is adaptable tothe different 
observational methods used to detect exoplanets as well as otherdata analysis problems. We describe the data as a 
combination of severalparametrized patterns and nuisance signals. We wish to determine which patternsare present, and 
for a detection to be valid, the parameters of the claimedpattern have to correspond to a true one with a certain 
accuracy. We search fora detection criterion minimizing false and missed detections, either as afunction of their 
relative cost, or when the expected number of falsedetections is bounded. We find that if the patterns can be separated 
in atechnical sense, the two approaches lead to the same optimal procedure. Weapply it to the retrieval of periodic 
signals in unevenly sampled time series,emulating the search for exoplanets in radial velocity data. We show on 
asimulation that, for a given tolerance to false detections, the new criterionleads to 15 to 30\% more true detections 
than other criteria, including theBayes factor.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04957v1*  
**论文批注** *Submitted to Annals of Applied Statistics*
### 2
  
**论文标题** *Autoregressive models for time series of random sums of positive
  variables: application to tree growth as a function 
of climate and insect
  outbreaks*  
**论文作者** *Zinsou Max Debaly,Philippe Marchand,Miguel Montoro Girona*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *We present a broad class of semi-parametric models for time series of randomsums of positive variables. Our methodology 
allows the number of terms insidethe sum to be time-varying and is therefore well suited to many examplesencountered in 
the natural sciences. We study the stability properties of themodels and provide a valid statistical inference procedure
 to estimate themodel parameters. It is shown that the proposed quasi-maximum likelihoodestimator is consistent and 
asymptotically normally distributed. This work iscomplemented by simulation results and applied to annual growth rate 
timeseries of white spruce (Picea glauca) trees from a few dozen sites in Quebecspanning 41 years, including one major 
spruce budworm (Choristoneurafumiferana) outbreak from around 1968 to 1991. We found significant growthreductions due to
 budworm-induced by defoliation up to two years in the past.Our results also revealed positive effects of maximum 
temperature,precipitation and the climate moisture index in the summer, as well as negativeeffects of the climate 
moisture index in the spring and the maximum temperaturein the previous summer. However, considering the interaction of 
climate anddefoliation on growth did not improve the model's performance on this dataset.This study represent a major 
advances and our result represent an useful toolin the understanding of the combined effects of climate and insect 
defoliationon tree growth in the face of climate change, where the frequency and theseverity of outbreaks, as well as an
 increase of temperature is expected.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04926v1*
### 3
  
**论文标题** *Monitoring Time Series With Missing Values: a Deep Probabilistic
  Approach*  
**论文作者** *Oshri Barazani,David Tolpin*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *Systems are commonly monitored for health and security through collection andstreaming of multivariate time series. 
Advances in time series forecasting dueto adoption of multilayer recurrent neural network architectures make itpossible 
to forecast in high-dimensional time series, and identify and classifynovelties early, based on subtle changes in the 
trends. However, mainstreamapproaches to multi-variate time series predictions do not handle well caseswhen the ongoing 
forecast must include uncertainty, nor they are robust tomissing data. We introduce a new architecture for time series 
monitoring basedon combination of state-of-the-art methods of forecasting in high-dimensionaltime series with full 
probabilistic handling of uncertainty. We demonstrateadvantage of the architecture for time series forecasting and 
noveltydetection, in particular with partially missing data, and empirically evaluateand compare the architecture to 
state-of-the-art approaches on a real-worlddata set.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04916v1*
### 4
  
**论文标题** *Geometric Optimisation on Manifolds with Applications to Deep Learning*  
**论文作者** *Mario Lezcano-Casado*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *We design and implement a Python library to help the non-expert using allthese powerful tools in a way that is 
efficient, extensible, and simple toincorporate into the workflow of the data scientist, practitioner, and 
appliedresearcher. The algorithms implemented in this library have been designed withusability and GPU efficiency in 
mind, and they can be added to any PyTorchmodel with just one extra line of code.  We showcase the effectiveness of 
these tools on an application ofoptimisation on manifolds in the setting of time series analysis. In thissetting, 
orthogonal and unitary optimisation is used to constraint andregularise recurrent models and avoid vanishing and 
exploding gradientproblems. The algorithms designed for GeoTorch allow us to achieve state of theart results in the 
standard tests for this family of models.  We use tools from comparison geometry to give bounds on quantities that areof
 interest in optimisation problems. In particular, we build on the work of(Kaul 1976) to give explicit bounds on the 
norm of the second derivative of theRiemannian exponential.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04794v1*  
**论文批注** *DPhil Thesis. 154 pages*
### 5
  
**论文标题** *Dynamic mode decomposition as an analysis tool for time-dependent
  partial differential equations*  
**论文作者** *Miha Rot,Martin Horvat,Gregor Kosec*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *The time-dependent fields obtained by solving partial differential equationsin two and more dimensions quickly overwhelm
 the analytical capabilities of thehuman brain. A meaningful insight into the temporal behaviour can be obtainedby using
 scalar reductions, which, however, come with a loss of spatial detail.Dynamic Mode Decomposition is a data-driven 
analysis method that solves thisproblem by identifying oscillating spatial structures and their 
correspondingfrequencies. This paper presents the algorithm and provides a physicalinterpretation of the results by 
applying the decomposition method to a seriesof increasingly complex examples.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04728v1*  
**论文批注** *6 pages, 8 figures*
### 6
  
**论文标题** *Defending Black-box Skeleton-based Human Activity Classifiers*  
**论文作者** *He Wang,Yunfeng Diao,Zichang Tan,Guodong Guo*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *Deep learning has been regarded as the `go to' solution for many tasks today,but its intrinsic vulnerability to 
malicious attacks has become a majorconcern. The vulnerability is affected by a variety of factors includingmodels, 
tasks, data, and attackers. Consequently, methods such as AdversarialTraining and Randomized Smoothing have been 
proposed to tackle the problem in awide range of applications. In this paper, we investigate skeleton-based 
HumanActivity Recognition, which is an important type of time-series data butunder-explored in defense against attacks. 
Our method is featured by (1) a newBayesian Energy-based formulation of robust discriminative classifiers, (2) anew 
parameterization of the adversarial sample manifold of actions, and (3) anew post-train Bayesian treatment on both the 
adversarial samples and theclassifier. We name our framework Bayesian Energy-based Adversarial Training orBEAT. BEAT is 
straightforward but elegant, which turns vulnerable black-boxclassifiers into robust ones without sacrificing accuracy. 
It demonstratessurprising and universal effectiveness across a wide range of actionclassifiers and datasets, under 
various attacks.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04713v1*
### 7
  
**论文标题** *Efficient and feasible inference for high-dimensional normal copula
  regression models*  
**论文作者** *Aristidis K. Nikoloulopoulos*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-09*  
**论文摘要** *The composite likelihood (CL) is amongst the computational methods used forthe estimation of high-dimensional 
multivariate normal (MVN) copula models withdiscrete responses. Its computational advantage, as a surrogate 
likelihoodmethod, is that is based on the independence likelihood for the univariateregression and non-regression 
parameters and pairwise likelihood for thecorrelation parameters, but the efficiency of estimating the 
univariateregression and non-regression parameters can be low. For a high-dimensionaldiscrete response, we propose 
weighted versions of the composite likelihoodestimating equations and an iterative approach to determine good 
weightmatrices. The general methodology is applied to the MVN copula with univariateordinal regressions as the 
marginals. Efficiency calculations show that ourmethod is nearly as efficient as the maximum likelihood for fully 
specified MVNcopula models. Illustrations include simulations and real data applicationsregarding longitudinal (low-
dimensional) and time (high-dimensional) seriesordinal response data with covariates and it is shown that there is 
asubstantial gain in efficiency via the weighted CL method.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.04619v1*