#! https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/478297833

[时间序列] 每日论文速递
=============

### 1
  
**论文标题** *Exploring Physical-Based Constraints in Short-Term Load Forecasting: A
  Defense Mechanism Against Cyberattack*  
**论文作者** *Mojtaba Dezvarei,Kevin Tomsovic,Jinyuan Stella Sun,Seddik M. Djouadi*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Short-term load forecasting is an essential task that supports utilities toschedule generating sufficient power for 
balancing supply and demand, and canbecome an attractive target for cyber attacks. It has been shown that the 
powersystem state estimation is vulnerable to false data injection attacks.Similarly, false data injection on input 
variables can result in large forecasterrors. The load forecasting system should have a protective mechanism tomitigate 
such attacks. One approach is to model physical system constraintsthat would identify anomalies. This study investigates
 possible constraintsassociated with a load forecasting application. Looking at regional forecastedloads, we analyze the
 relation between each zone through similarity measuresused in time series in order to identify constraints. 
Comprehensive results forhistorical ERCOT load data indicate variation in the measures recognizing theexistence of 
malicious action. Still, these static measures can not beconsidered an efficient index across different scenarios.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03774v1*  
**论文批注** *2022 IEEE Power and Energy Society General Meeting,17-21 July 2022,
  Denver, Colorado, USA*
### 2
  
**论文标题** *Provably Accurate and Scalable Linear Classifiers in Hyperbolic Spaces*  
**论文作者** *Chao Pan,Eli Chien,Puoya Tabaghi,Jianhao Peng,Olgica Milenkovic*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Many high-dimensional practical data sets have hierarchical structuresinduced by graphs or time series. Such data sets 
are hard to process inEuclidean spaces and one often seeks low-dimensional embeddings in other spaceforms to perform the
 required learning tasks. For hierarchical data, the spaceof choice is a hyperbolic space because it guarantees low-
distortion embeddingsfor tree-like structures. The geometry of hyperbolic spaces has properties notencountered in 
Euclidean spaces that pose challenges when trying to rigorouslyanalyze algorithmic solutions. We propose a unified 
framework for learningscalable and simple hyperbolic linear classifiers with provable performanceguarantees. The gist of
 our approach is to focus on Poincar\'e ball models andformulate the classification problems using tangent space 
formalisms. Ourresults include a new hyperbolic perceptron algorithm as well as an efficientand highly accurate convex 
optimization setup for hyperbolic support vectormachine classifiers. Furthermore, we adapt our approach to 
accommodatesecond-order perceptrons, where data is preprocessed based on second-orderinformation (correlation) to 
accelerate convergence, and strategic perceptrons,where potentially manipulated data arrives in an online manner and 
decisionsare made sequentially. The excellent performance of the Poincar\'e second-orderand strategic perceptrons shows 
that the proposed framework can be extended togeneral machine learning problems in hyperbolic spaces. Our 
experimentalresults, pertaining to synthetic, single-cell RNA-seq expression measurements,CIFAR10, Fashion-MNIST and 
mini-ImageNet, establish that all algorithmsprovably converge and have complexity comparable to those of their 
Euclideancounterparts. Accompanying codes can be found at:https://github.com/thupchnsky/PoincareLinearClassification.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03730v1*
### 3
  
**论文标题** *Detecting the periodicity of highly irregularly sampled light-curves
  with Gaussian processes: the case of 
SDSSJ025214.67-002813.7*  
**论文作者** *Stefano Covino,Felipe Tobar,Aldo Treves*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Based on a 20-year-long multiband observation of its light-curve, it wasconjectured that the quasar 
SDSSJ025214.67-002813.7 has a periodicity of ~4.4years. These observations were acquired at a highly irregular sampling 
rate andfeature long intervals of missing data. In this setting, the inference over thelight-curve's spectral content 
requires, in addition to classic Fouriermethods, a proper model of the probability distribution of the 
missingobservations. In this article, we address the detection of the periodicity of alight-curve from partial and 
irregularly-sampled observations using Gaussianprocesses, a Bayesian nonparametric model for time series. This 
methodologyallows us to evaluate the veracity of the claimed periodicity of theabovementioned quasar and also to 
estimate its power spectral density. Our maincontribution is the confirmation that considering periodic component 
definitelyimproves the modeling of the data, although being the source originallyselected by a large sample of objects, 
the possibility that this is a chanceresult cannot be ruled out.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03614v1*  
**论文批注** *9 pages, 4 figures, MNRAS, in press*
### 4
  
**论文标题** *Bayesian Bilinear Neural Network for Predicting the Mid-price Dynamics
  in Limit-Order Book Markets*  
**论文作者** *Martin Magris,Mostafa Shabani,Alexandros Iosifidis*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *The prediction of financial markets is a challenging yet important task. Inmodern electronically-driven markets 
traditional time-series econometricmethods often appear incapable of capturing the true complexity of themulti-level 
interactions driving the price dynamics. While recent research hasestablished the effectiveness of traditional machine 
learning (ML) models infinancial applications, their intrinsic inability in dealing withuncertainties, which is a great 
concern in econometrics research and realbusiness applications, constitutes a major drawback. Bayesian methods 
naturallyappear as a suitable remedy conveying the predictive ability of ML methods withthe probabilistically-oriented 
practice of econometric research. By adopting astate-of-the-art second-order optimization algorithm, we train a 
Bayesianbilinear neural network with temporal attention, suitable for the challengingtime-series task of predicting mid-
price movements in ultra-high-frequencylimit-order book markets. By addressing the use of predictive distributions 
toanalyze errors and uncertainties associated with the estimated parameters andmodel forecasts, we thoroughly compare 
our Bayesian model with traditional MLalternatives. Our results underline the feasibility of the Bayesian deeplearning 
approach and its predictive and decisional advantages in complexeconometric tasks, prompting future research in this 
direction.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03613v1*
### 5
  
**论文标题** *A solar-cycle study of coronal rotation: large variations, rapid
  changes, and implications for solar wind models*  
**论文作者** *Liam T. Edwards,David Kuridze,Thomas Williams,Huw Morgan*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Information on the rotation rate of the corona, and its variation overlatitude and solar cycle, is valuable for making 
global connections between thecorona and the Sun, for global estimates of reconnection rates, and as a basicparameter 
for solar wind modelling. Here, we use a time series of tomographicalmaps gained from coronagraph observations between 
2007 - 2020 to directlymeasure the longitudinal drift of high-density streamers over time. The methodreveals abrupt 
changes in rotation rates, revealing a complex relationshipbetween the coronal rotation and the underlying photosphere. 
The majority ofrates are between -1.0 to +0.5$^\circ$/day relative to the standard Carringtonrate of 14.18$^\circ$/day, 
although rates are measured as low as-2.2$^\circ$/day and as high as 1.6$^\circ$/day. Equatorial rotation ratesduring 
the 2008 solar minimum are slightly faster than the Carrington rate,with an abrupt switch to slow rotation in 2009, then
 a return to faster ratesin 2017. Abrupt changes and large variations in rates are seen at alllatitudes. Comparison with
 a magnetic model suggests that periods of equatorialfast rotation are associated with times when a large proportion of 
the magneticfootpoints of equatorial streamers are near the equator, and we interpret theabrupt changes in terms of the 
latitudinal distribution of the streamerphotospheric footpoints. The coronal rotation rate is a key parameter for 
solarwind models, and variations of up to a degree per day or more can lead to largesystematic errors over forecasting 
periods of longer than a few days. Theapproach described in this paper gives corrected values that can form a part 
offuture forecasting efforts.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03447v1*
### 6
  
**论文标题** *S-Rocket: Selective Random Convolution Kernels for Time Series
  Classification*  
**论文作者** *Hojjat Salehinejad,Yang Wang,Yuanhao Yu,Tang Jin,Shahrokh Valaee*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Random convolution kernel transform (Rocket) is a fast, efficient, and novelapproach for time series feature extraction,
 using a large number of randomlyinitialized convolution kernels, and classification of the represented featureswith a 
linear classifier, without training the kernels. Since these kernels aregenerated randomly, a portion of these kernels 
may not positively contribute inperformance of the model. Hence, selection of the most important kernels andpruning the 
redundant and less important ones is necessary to reducecomputational complexity and accelerate inference of Rocket. 
Selection of thesekernels is a combinatorial optimization problem. In this paper, the kernelsselection process is 
modeled as an optimization problem and a population-basedapproach is proposed for selecting the most important kernels. 
This approach isevaluated on the standard time series datasets and the results show that onaverage it can achieve a 
similar performance to the original models by pruningmore than 60% of kernels. In some cases, it can achieve a similar 
performanceusing only 1% of the kernels.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03445v1*
### 7
  
**论文标题** *Learning Solution Manifolds for Control Problems via Energy Minimization*  
**论文作者** *Miguel Zamora,Roi Poranne,Stelian Coros*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *A variety of control tasks such as inverse kinematics (IK), trajectoryoptimization (TO), and model predictive control 
(MPC) are commonly formulatedas energy minimization problems. Numerical solutions to such problems arewell-established. 
However, these are often too slow to be used directly inreal-time applications. The alternative is to learn solution 
manifolds forcontrol problems in an offline stage. Although this distillation process can betrivially formulated as a 
behavioral cloning (BC) problem in an imitationlearning setting, our experiments highlight a number of 
significantshortcomings arising due to incompatible local minima, interpolation artifacts,and insufficient coverage of 
the state space. In this paper, we propose analternative to BC that is efficient and numerically robust. We formulate 
thelearning of solution manifolds as a minimization of the energy terms of acontrol objective integrated over the space 
of problems of interest. Weminimize this energy integral with a novel method that combines MonteCarlo-inspired adaptive 
sampling strategies with the derivatives used to solveindividual instances of the control task. We evaluate the 
performance of ourformulation on a series of robotic control problems of increasing complexity,and we highlight its 
benefits through comparisons against traditional methodssuch as behavioral cloning and Dataset aggregation (Dagger).*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03432v1*
### 8
  
**论文标题** *Multivariate Time Series Forecasting with Latent Graph Inference*  
**论文作者** *Victor Garcia Satorras,Syama Sundar Rangapuram,Tim Januschowski*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *This paper introduces a new approach for Multivariate Time Series forecastingthat jointly infers and leverages relations
 among time series. Its modularityallows it to be integrated with current univariate methods. Our approach allowsto 
trade-off accuracy and computational efficiency gradually via offering onone extreme inference of a potentially fully-
connected graph or on anotherextreme a bipartite graph. In the potentially fully-connected case we considerall pair-wise
 interactions among time-series which yields the best forecastingaccuracy. Conversely, the bipartite case leverages the 
dependency structure byinter-communicating the N time series through a small set of K auxiliary nodesthat we introduce. 
This reduces the time and memory complexity w.r.t. previousgraph inference methods from O(N^2) to O(NK) with a small 
trade-off inaccuracy. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our model in a variety ofdatasets where both of its variants 
perform better or very competitively toprevious graph inference methods in terms of forecasting accuracy and 
timeefficiency.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03423v1*
### 9
  
**论文标题** *Automated Few-Shot Time Series Forecasting based on Bi-level Programming*  
**论文作者** *Jiangjiao Xu,Ke Li*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *New micro-grid design with renewable energy sources and battery storagesystems can help improve greenhouse gas emissions
 and reduce the operationalcost. To provide an effective short-/long-term forecasting of both energygeneration and load 
demand, time series predictive modeling has been one of thekey tools to guide the optimal decision-making for planning 
and operation. Oneof the critical challenges of time series renewable energy forecasting is thelack of historical data 
to train an adequate predictive model. Moreover, theperformance of a machine learning model is sensitive to the choice 
of itscorresponding hyperparameters. Bearing these considerations in mind, this paperdevelops a BiLO-Auto-TSF/ML 
framework that automates the optimal design of afew-shot learning pipeline from a bi-level programming 
perspective.Specifically, the lower-level meta-learning helps boost the base-learner tomitigate the small data challenge
 while the hyperparameter optimization at theupper level proactively searches for the optimal hyperparameter 
configurationsfor both base- and meta-learners. Note that the proposed framework is sogeneral that any off-the-shelf 
machine learning method can be used in a plug-inmanner. Comprehensive experiments fully demonstrate the effectiveness of
 ourproposed BiLO-Auto-TSF/ML framework to search for a high-performance few-shotlearning pipeline for various energy 
sources.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03328v1*
### 10
  
**论文标题** *Evaluating State of the Art, Forecasting Ensembles- and Meta-learning
  Strategies for Model Fusion*  
**论文作者** *Pieter Cawood,Terence van Zyl*  
**发表时间** *2022-03-07*  
**论文摘要** *Techniques of hybridisation and ensemble learning are popular model fusiontechniques for improving the predictive power 
of forecasting methods. Withlimited research that instigates combining these two promising approaches, thispaper focuses
 on the utility of the Exponential-Smoothing-Recurrent NeuralNetwork (ES-RNN) in the pool of base models for different 
ensembles. We compareagainst some state of the art ensembling techniques and arithmetic modelaveraging as a benchmark. 
We experiment with the M4 forecasting data set of100,000 time-series, and the results show that the Feature-based 
Forecast ModelAveraging (FFORMA), on average, is the best technique for late data fusion withthe ES-RNN. However, 
considering the M4's Daily subset of data, stacking wasthe only successful ensemble at dealing with the case where all 
base modelperformances are similar. Our experimental results indicate that we attainstate of the art forecasting results
 compared to N-BEATS as a benchmark. Weconclude that model averaging is a more robust ensemble than model selectionand 
stacking strategies. Further, the results show that gradient boosting issuperior for implementing ensemble learning 
strategies.*  
**论文链接** *http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.03279v1*
